So this is the first section
called the introduction.
And what we're gonna learn in this is
the history of the browser DevTools.
We're gonna take a little bit of a walk
down memory lane or maybe not for
the younger folks watching, but
what it was like interacting
with the DOM in the early days.
And then we're gonna kind of cover the
groups that I think this course is really
best to benefit.
So again,
this is an introduction course, so
we assume very little
knowledge of the DevTools.
So if we start at the very beginning,
the way to open the DevTools,
you have kind of two options,
keyboard shortcuts or using your mouse.
And so you can right click on any website,
and you can click Inspect,
and it'll open this, typically,
it starts as a bottom panel.
You can also use keyboard shortcuts,
I've got two of them here,
so you can use Command+Option+C
on your Mac, or
Control+Option+C does the exact
same thing, it opens the DevTools.
So we get these open and we have this
thing that we're looking at, typically,
depending on the keyboard shortcut
user on the elements tab.
And one of the ways that I like to start
this off is by having people just think
for a second about, if you had to
describe what are you seeing here,
how would you describe that?
And it's interesting because I feel
like a lot of people, and this is not
a wrong answer, but a lot of people say,
you're looking at HTML and CSS, right?
I mean,
that's kind of what you're looking at.
But the reason that I think it's so
interesting is cuz it's not
necessarily true, right?
It is HTML and CSS for sure,
I'm not gonna argue that,
margin zero is CSS so
that a body tag is HTML.
But you're really looking at this fully
parsed browser rendered DOM, right?
If you think about looking at raw HTML,
you would have a very hard time clicking
on the body and learning that it
had background color of this gray.
Because you'd have to look at the body,
then you'd have to search
your code base for some CSS.
And you'd have to look at see if
there was any body tags and all that.
So this is not source code, this is after
the source code has been sent down,
the browser has done all its work and
we're gonna get into what that work is
later, and this fully interactive
DOM is what we get here.
And that's an important distinction
because, back in the day, we didn't have
this cool fully interactive DOM, we
literally did have just the HTML and CSS.
And so, this screen still exists,
if you right click on your browser, and
instead of going to Inspect,
you View Page Source.
And so, if you view the page source,
you actually get the text content
that gets sent down with the page.
So here's my CSS which is in line,
and then here's my HTML down here.
And so, this is interesting, you could
still kind of poke around at it or
you could copy it all and
put it into an ID or something like that.
But, one of the big things that used
to be super painful back in the day,
was like let's say that you wanna check
something's value in JavaScript, right?
That's something we all do, probably all
the time, we're like, wait a minute,
this link isn't working, what's the value
of link right now or what is foo equal.
So what we used to do back in the day
was with a lot of stuff [LAUGH], and
some people haven't even
messed with alert before.
So, if I right click and open up the
DevTools, and I go to the Console tab, and
I type alert, hi, this used to be the
thing back in the day, and I hit Enter.
You'll see you get this browser rendered
thing at the top of your screen that
says, hi.
So this is pretty cool and at first
it kinda looks like, okay, I get it,
it's like Console log, but it comes on
the top of the screen, that's fine.
But alert has a lot of limitations,
for an example,
if you are to go back in the DevTools
again, and go to console and
you were try alert anything that's not
a primitive, like let's say an object.
So I do name, and we make this a little
bigger, name, Jon, and I tried to alert
that you'll see I don't get named Jon, I
get this two string version of the object.
So, it says alert Object Object.
And so, the thing that we used to have to
do back in the day if we wanted to read
the values of an object, was we would
put them in a loop, like a for loop.
And then we would log out each key and
value, and we'd alert each one of those.
And so, then you'd reload the site and it
would get like an alert, and you click OK,
OK, OK,
until the whole thing went through.
And so, the DevTools offering
this interactive DOM,
this ability to console log complex
statements and complex types,
like objects and arrays,
is a really gigantic improvement.
So, yeah, back in the day we're working,
we have view page source, we have alert,
those are kind of our tools for debugging.
And then this really cool tool comes
out Hexie's Live Dom Viewer, so
I'm gonna open this in another tab.
So this was like, you can kind of
see it's actually quite similar,
in a sense to the DevTools.
But this was this really great tool,
we're able to do things, like make an h1
Hello world, and we're able to see not
only the markup, but we're able to see
what the DOM is, and we're able to see
a preview of it, all in real time.
It was like [LAUGH] this is really mind
blowing tooI, I know it's something that
we take for granted nowadays,
but it was this great thing.
So you could grab that view source,
and you could put it in here, and
then you could actually start looking at
the DOM structure, what it looks like.
All these different things you can mess
with it and see updates in real time.
So that was great, and then and
this is like a very old school,
this tool came out, Firefox Firebug.
And it was the very first built in
browser extension that was a DevTool.
And one of the things I always
like to point out is that,
if you use your imagination a little bit,
this thing that came out, whatever,
20 plus years ago or something like that.
It doesn't look too different
than what we have today, right?
I mean, if you look at this, you've
got your HTML structure over here and
you've got the corresponding
CSS over here.
We've kind of moved things around and
all that but, essentially,
Firebug comes out and sets this gold
standard for development experience.
There's a ton of stuff I can't do,
of course, cuz it's a long time ago, but
this was a giant change in how people
built and edited and debugged websites.
And so, Firebug was this incredible tool,
kind of first of its kind,
and a few years ago back in 2016,
they officially sunsetted it.
A lot of the core got
moved into Firefox itself,
Firefox comes with its own DevTools now,
but it was sort of this big moment for us.
Where we had all of a sudden
our efficiency sped up,
like a hundredfold and
we could debug complex things.
And we could just do,
all this stuff that we couldn't do before,
that's a really cool tool.
And I was very sad when it got sunset
just cuz it's kind of the end of an era.